I ended the previous video by lamenting that there is no Python function called mean when.
All I want to do is get the average of a set of numbers.
So this brings me to libraries.
A library is a set of functions and some other attributes, but mostly a lot of functions that are bundled
together because they're somehow related to each other.
So numpy is a library in Python.
The num is for.
Let me write this out num pi.
So the num is for numbers or numerical.
And pi of course is for Python.
So numpy is a package of lots and lots of functions that are used for numerical processing.
And of course, you know deep learning is all about numbers.
So or it's implemented all through math and numbers.
So therefore we're going to use numpy quite a bit in this course.
Also PyTorch and lots of other libraries.
Okay, but so let me introduce you to numpy.
So how do we get numpy?
If I just try running this, we get an error message that says numpy is not defined.
One of the ideas, the philosophies of Python, is that it should be lightweight and simple to use,
and easy to install and package together.
So that means that the base Python, which we've been working with so far in all the videos, doesn't
really have that many functions.
It has a core set of functions, and beyond that, it just doesn't really do a whole lot.
So that's good because it means that numpy is fast to install and to start on any computer, any kind
of hardware, or even like on your phone.
Uh, but it means that it's that base Python is very limited in its functionality.
Okay.
So what we want to do is import the numpy library so that we can access the functions that are contained
in numpy.
And so the formulation for doing that, the syntax for importing a library is you type import.
And notice that now this is a black text.
And when I finish the word import it becomes this nice magenta color.
So import numpy.
This imports the library into the Python workspace.
And now it's also common to use an abbreviation.
So rather than having to write out the entire word numpy we are going to write out NP.
I know it's not saving that much time, it's only three letters shorter.
But somehow, you know, if you if you use numpy a lot then typing, you know, dropping these three
letters is going to save you minutes of your life over the course of years of using Python anyway.
So import numpy as NP nothing happened in the output.
There's no output of this.
But what this does is bring the numpy library into our current Python session.
And now we can access all of the functionalities, all the functions that are contained in the NumPy
library.
And how do we access these?
By typing the name of the library or the abbreviation that we used here, and then the name of the function.
So numpy dot mean.
And now I can write in a list.
And now we get the number 15.25 exactly as we calculated over here.
So that means that this function mean actually does exist in Python.
It's just not provided by base Python.
It's provided by the numpy library.
And we need to access it using this dot over here.
And then you can see you know this still doesn't give us anything.
Okay.
So numpy dot mean.
Now this output here looks slightly different from this output here.
This is just a floating point number.
And here we actually get numpy dot float64.
And then the output.
So this is in fact a different data type.
And let me I'll call this variable M and then I will write type m.
So now we can see that this variable m which is the output of this function numpy dot mean is of type
numpy dot float.
So 64 bit precision and float.
So there you go.
That's a new data type that you can learn about uh how many functions are there in numpy.
I don't personally know the answer.
Uh, I suppose it would be relatively easy to Google that and get the answer.
Most functions in numpy you probably won't use.
There are functions that you will use pretty often.
Mean is one.
Uh, Linspace is a function that gets used quite often.
Linspace takes three inputs.
The first input.
Actually, let me just show it to you and then I will discuss.
Uh, okay.
So let's say one comma six comma 19, uh, and the output is a set of numbers.
And there are 19 of them.
We can tell that there's 19 because there's one, two, three, four, five.
So that's five times three rows.
That is five times three is 15.
And then we get 16, 17, 18, 19 okay.
And then the first number is one and the last number is six.
So I think you can probably already guess what Lin space does.
It creates a vector of linearly spaced numbers between 1 and 6.
And how many numbers do we get between this input and this input.
Well we get whatever is specified by the third input, which in this case is 19.
So there you go 19 linearly spaced numbers between 1 and 6.
So let's create an output for this I will call this a is not a very informative variable name.
But that's okay.
We don't need it very long.
And let's see what is the type of this variable.
Huh.
So this is a numpy array okay.
What is an ndarray.
This is actually two separate words here.
This is a n for n dimensional.
And then this is array.
So an array in Python just means that it's more than one number.
So if there's one number you might call it a scalar.
If you're familiar with linear algebra.
And an array would be a vector or a matrix.
So in NumPy if you have a set of numbers kind of like a list, but a numpy version of a list, we call
that an array.
And then there's different dimensionalities of arrays.
You'll learn about that later.
You don't have to worry about that now.
So an n dimensional array that is a specific type of variable in numpy.
And that you see here as well.
This is called an array.
So that is different from the type of a list which is of type list.
Now sometimes in numpy you can actually enter non numpy arrays into a numpy function.
So here I'm inputting a list.
This is not a numpy data type.
This is a list.
Inputting that into the numpy function and I get a valid result.
There are situations where the input into a numpy function needs to be a numpy array.
So how do we convert a list into a numpy array?
That's actually pretty straightforward.
We use a function called numpy dot array.
Okay so here let me put some spaces in here.
So this is a list here I'm inputting the list into this function numpy dot array.
And what does this function do.
It takes in something that is not a numpy array like a list.
And it outputs something that is a numpy array.
So now I can run this code.
And we see that this transformed from a list into a numpy array.
And what does this actually look like.
Well it doesn't look that interesting.
Uh, it's basically all the same information just encased in this type array instead of a type list.
Another numpy function that I can introduce you to now is a range.
So I have mentioned this variable type called range.
Now we haven't yet used range a whole lot except for you know this is what we did here.
We made a list of integers from 0 to 1 minus whatever this number is here.
Okay.
So this is a base Python type.
And now there's a numpy version of this which is a range or array range.
That's what the A stands for.
So let's see if I do.
If I run this I see something that looks similar to this.
The output of this line, except the output of this line was list of course.
And the output of this line is a numpy array.
And from here you can index just like you have learned how to index before.
Okay.
Now another thing that something potential point of confusion that I would like to point out here is
this Here.
The output of Linspace started at one and ended at six.
So this is an inclusive upper bound here.
That means the output will actually include the number that I have specified here.
On the other hand numpy dot arange starts counting at zero and it stops at one less than this value
here.
So this is an exclusive upper bound.
Yeah.
So that's confusing because sometimes these functions have inclusive upper bounds and sometimes they
have exclusive upper bounds.
As you work with Python more and more you will start to learn which functions are inclusive and which
are exclusive.
You'll also start to build intuition for when a function might be inclusive and when it might be exclusive.
For now, don't stress about that.
You can just test out these functions as you need to use them to make sure that they are giving the
output that you expect.